Rules of Checkers.

Aim of the game.
The checkers game consists of 24 pieces divided into 12 white-colored and 12 black-colored pieces and a board of 64 squares (8x8) alternately colored white and black.

The purpose of the game is the block of all the opponent’s pieces, so that it is not possible for them to move.

How to play checkers.
Each player commands the pieces of a certain color located at the start of each side of the board. The white pieces start the game.

The moves are made alternately, one per player, in a diagonal direction, by only one square and in forward direction, that is, towards the opponent’s area.

If a player manages to take one of his/her pieces to the opposite side of the board, he/she can change the piece for a king (two pieces of the same color, one above the other).

The king is also moved in a diagonal direction, but it can be forwards and backwards. According to the table options, the king can advance one square as the pieces do or cover any numbers of squares if they are free. It can never jump over its own pieces or two pieces in a row.

Capture the opponent’s pieces.
One piece can capture another one if it can jump over it, but always in the attack direction and in diagonal, being placed in the square right back that one.

Besides, the kings can capture in any directions. If they can move more than one square (see the table options), they can capture any pieces that are on the same diagonal whenever the previous rules are satisfied.

The capture is mandatory. If one or more pieces are in a position of capture, it is mandatory to make such a capture and it is not possible to opt for moving another piece.

Once the capture is made, both the piece and the king must capture again if it is possible according to the previous rules and on the same turn of the player, and so on.

When two or more pieces are in a position of capture, they are subject to the law of quantity and quality:

Law of Quantity: it is mandatory to capture the highest number of pieces as possible.
Law of Quality: when the number of pieces to be captured is the same, it is mandatory to capture the ones with a higher quality, that is, the king before a piece.
End of game.
The game ends when a player leaves it, has no pieces or the pieces do not have any possibilities of move (blocked or cornered).

There is a tie when both players agree on it.
